readme.md, before:

# AVR CMake Template Project

This template project serves as a starting point for using an AVR toolchain with CMake. 

## Setup

1. In order to use the template, some variables have to be defined in the `CMakeList.txt`:

```
set(TARGET <your target/project name>)

set(MCU <mmcu variable, e.g. atmega4809>)
set(F_CPU <CPU frequency>)

set(AVRDUDE_MCU <corresponding MCU identifier for avrdude, e.g. m4809>)
set(AVRDUDE_PROGRAMMER_ID <your programmer identifier, e.g. pkobn_updi>)

# Optional: specify the desired language standard
set(CMAKE_C_STANDARD 11)
set(CMAKE_CXX_STANDARD 20)
```

2. Thereafter, the toolchain can be included with: `include(cmake/Toolchain.cmake)`

3. The project needs to be defined with the function `add_avr_executable(${TARGET} <your sources>)`.

Please refer to the example project for the full outline of the `CMakeLists.txt`. Note that for newer devices, a device pack might be needed. The boolean `TOOLCHAIN_NEED_DEVICE_PACK` specifies this. If this variable is set to true, `Toolchain.cmake`will look for a `device_pack` folder at the root of the project and set up the necessary compiler flags for using the device pack with the given MCU specified.

## Use

Once the `CMakeLists.txt` has been defined, the project can be compiled and upload by issuing:

- `mkdir build && cd build`
- `cmake ..`
- `make -j`
- `make upload`

## Defined targets

`Toolchain.cmake` defines the following convenience targets in addition to default make targets:

- `make upload`: Upload using avrdude.
- `make upload_eeprom`: Upload eeprom using avrdude.
- `make disassemble`: Disassemble the .elf file.


## LSP

The `Toolchain.cmake` file is set to generate a `compile_commands.json` compilation database for use with e.g. clangd. It is advised to keep a symlink pointing form the root of the project to the build folder: `ln -s build/compile_commands.json compile_commands.json`. In order for clangd to work properly with avr-gcc, a `.clangd` file is provided in the example project. Moreover, clangd has to be started with `--query-driver=<path to avr-gcc/avr-g++>`. For Neovim users, the following Lua snippet is useful for setting this up with lspconfig:

```lua
local build_clangd_command = function()
	local path = ""
	local handle = io.popen("which avr-gcc")

	if handle ~= nil then
		local output = handle:read("*a")
		path = output:gsub("[\n\r]", "")
		-- We want to allow for g++ as well, so replace with a wildcard
		path = path:gsub("gcc$", "g*")
		handle:close()
	end

	return {
		"clangd",
		string.format("--query-driver=%s", path),
	}
end

lspconfig["clangd"].setup({
	cmd = build_clangd_command(),
}

```

Commit message:

Add some more information about device packs

readme.md, after:

# AVR CMake Template Project

This template project serves as a starting point for using an AVR toolchain with CMake. 

## Setup

1. In order to use the template, some variables have to be defined in the `CMakeList.txt`:

```
set(TARGET <your target/project name>)

set(MCU <mmcu variable, e.g. atmega4809>)
set(F_CPU <CPU frequency>)

set(AVRDUDE_MCU <corresponding MCU identifier for avrdude, e.g. m4809>)
set(AVRDUDE_PROGRAMMER_ID <your programmer identifier, e.g. pkobn_updi>)

# Optional: specify the desired language standard
set(CMAKE_C_STANDARD 11)
set(CMAKE_CXX_STANDARD 20)
```

2. Thereafter, the toolchain can be included with: `include(cmake/Toolchain.cmake)`

3. The project needs to be defined with the function `add_avr_executable(${TARGET} <your sources>)`.

Please refer to the example project for the full outline of the `CMakeLists.txt`. Note that for newer devices, a device pack might be needed. The boolean `TOOLCHAIN_NEED_DEVICE_PACK` specifies this. If this variable is set to true, `Toolchain.cmake` will look for a `device_pack` folder at the root of the project and set up the necessary compiler flags for using the device pack with the given MCU specified. The device packs can be found at [Microchip Packs Repository](http://packs.download.atmel.com). Download the pack for your device and unzip it into a folder named `device_pack` in the root of your project: `unzip <device_pack>.atpack -d device_pack`.

## Use

Once the `CMakeLists.txt` has been defined, the project can be compiled and upload by issuing:

- `mkdir build && cd build`
- `cmake ..`
- `make -j`
- `make upload`

## Defined targets

`Toolchain.cmake` defines the following convenience targets in addition to default make targets:

- `make upload`: Upload using avrdude.
- `make upload_eeprom`: Upload eeprom using avrdude.
- `make disassemble`: Disassemble the .elf file.


## LSP

The `Toolchain.cmake` file is set to generate a `compile_commands.json` compilation database for use with e.g. clangd. It is advised to keep a symlink pointing form the root of the project to the build folder: `ln -s build/compile_commands.json compile_commands.json`. In order for clangd to work properly with avr-gcc, a `.clangd` file is provided in the example project. Moreover, clangd has to be started with `--query-driver=<path to avr-gcc/avr-g++>`. For Neovim users, the following Lua snippet is useful for setting this up with lspconfig:

```lua
local build_clangd_command = function()
	local path = ""
	local handle = io.popen("which avr-gcc")

	if handle ~= nil then
		local output = handle:read("*a")
		path = output:gsub("[\n\r]", "")
		-- We want to allow for g++ as well, so replace with a wildcard
		path = path:gsub("gcc$", "g*")
		handle:close()
	end

	return {
		"clangd",
		string.format("--query-driver=%s", path),
	}
end

lspconfig["clangd"].setup({
	cmd = build_clangd_command(),
}

```
